# Data Scholars' Intro to Data Science Guide

Data science is rewriting the rules of science, research, and programming. The practice of using information to approach underlying truth--rather than accepting the wisdom of authority--was the core tenant of the Scientific Revolution. This democratization of the quest for truth shook the political, technological, and economic foundations of the world, sparking the Industrial Revolution and, arguably, the shift from imperialism to more diffuse and democratic power structures. Today, computer programs are enabling another shift in the accessibility of information, from the communications technologies of the internet to the data access, organization, and analysis made possible by a myriad range of innovations in big data, cloud-servers, and algorithms. The frontiers of society are inextricably linked to this data revolution. As a consequence, the nature of our future will be shaped fundamentally by who controls the data and its interpretation. The more that people can utilize data science applications and understand the consequences of data for society, the more they will in turn demand that corporations, governments, and research bodies share their data resources. The spread of data science, then, is not simply a means to improve the competetiveness of our economies or job prospects for workers, but rather an issue akin to mass literacy following the invention of the printing press, something of basic necessity to ensure that the gains of technology are shared broadly rather than captured by a small segment of society. Learning how to program, to implement algorithms, to interpret data and draw conclusions from its analysis are no longer the reserve of computer scientists or academics; they are quickly becoming basic skills necessary for social and political participation.
